What is going on, my friend? This is Kaizen after Dark. I am
your host, Tony Kaizen. And forgive me if you hear cars
passing by or sirens and shit like that. I'm at the park
right now recording this podcast episode and, uh, I wanted
to just leave you with something to think about or I really
want to get your opinion. So after you hear this episode,
please hit me up on Discord so we can talk about it because
there's a lot of harmful information out there being spread
on the Internet and especially harmful to young people
because there are a lot of young people who just don't have
much life experience and they also don't really have any
role models or, you know, father or mother figures to guide
them through life so they're just being parented by their
cell phones. Whatever they see on the screen and hear...is
what they got. That's their guide through life, you know
what I'm saying? So there's a lot of harmful information out
there, um, in relation to young people, for lack of a better
way of saying it. But out of all the harmful information,
some of the information that I think is most harmful is the
idea that one can just chase their dreams and everything
will be fine. You know, you'll hear people say, follow your
dreams, follow your passions, you know, do what you love and
you'll never work a day in your life. You just have to find
what you love and try to do that for a living. And although
that sounds amazing and there are some people who actually
achieve that, I don't think that...that idea is complete, to
say that you can just, you know, decide what you love to do
more than anything else and try to make a career out of
that. It's not necessarily...it's not the whole truth, let's
say. There's a lot more that goes into that. I think the
complete idea is, but -- alright, you can follow your
dreams, but -- you're going to have to learn a lot along the
way and most likely do a lot of shit that you don't want to
do. Because at the end of the day, what it took me years to
understand and then accept is that you can... you can follow
your passions, bro. You can follow your dreams, you can
invest in what you love, whether it's art or fucking
agriculture or whatever, whatever, you know, construction,
building furniture, whatever it is that tickles your fancy.
You can invest in those skills, you can invest in those
crafts. But unless you can get somebody to pay you for them,
you will never make a living doing that shit, bro. Now,
thankfully, there are many ways to monetize your passions
these days, but the point is you still have to learn that
stuff. And especially if we're talking about creative work,
to say that you can just put out creative work and people
are naturally going to love it and share it and you'll
become a fucking millionaire if you just stick with it.
That's fucking nonsense, bro. It's nonsense because if when
money gets involved, it's no longer just art, it's business
now. You're talking about working for yourself, monetizing
your passions. You're talking about being a solopreneur,
which is like, I don't know if it's slang, but it's a term
we use for somebody who is doing entrepreneurial things, but
not necessarily running a business, because a business
technically doesn't require you to be there for it to
operate. But if you're like, uh, a sole proprietor and
you're just working for yourself, you're like a solopreneur.
That's the idea. So if you're going to be a solopreneur or
an entrepreneur or whatever you want to call it, you have to
learn how business works, bro. You have to learn about
marketing. More...More importantly than anything, or I
should say, what's more important than anything is learning
about marketing, how to sell yourself and what you do and
understanding what selling even is. A lot of people don't
even know what selling actually is, you know, and the
branding and finance and budgeting and investing and fucking
hiring people and creating systems and automating those
systems so that you can just focus on what it is you love
while the business part is not on autopilot, but it runs
without your constant attention. You see what I'm saying?
There's so many little things that you have to learn when it
comes to making money for yourself, especially in the
creative world, because a lot of people think, "Oh, I can
just make a Tik Tok profile, a YouTube channel, or start a
podcast, and I just put the content out there and the rest
takes care of itself." This is false. This, I can tell you
from experience, my friend, this is not true. You have to
learn the other side of it, how money is actually made. So I
think a much better thing to tell young people -- really,
anybody in general who wants to work for themselves or
monetize their passions -- is you first have to understand
what the market values, you understand? If we're talking
about business and money being exchanged for services or
products or whatever, you have to understand what people are
willing to pay for. You have to understand why somebody
would remove their wallet from their pocket, pull out their
credit card and give you the number so that you can charge
them. You have to understand what makes people do that. You
see what I'm saying? And that doesn't... I don't think
that's like obvious information to an artist who wants to
make money from their artwork. You see what I'm saying? It
wasn't obvious to me, you know, and a lot of us, even if we
understand the idea that it's not as easy as it looks, I
think a lot of people, especially young people, see these
people online who make it look easy or these people online
who know how to talk a good game or these people online who
try to make it look easy so they can sell you the tools you
need to get it done. And they just get this false
impression. They...They get this distorted vision of the way
things work and how much fucking effort and time and energy
and diligence and discipline and patience go into creating
the life of your dreams. Walking the road less traveled, you
know what I'm saying? I think I talked about this in the
previous episode. I don't remember what number it was, but
just advice for young creatives is what I was talking about.
And it's exactly that. You have to understand you are
choosing to go against the grain. You are choosing to do
what most people are afraid to do or simply don't want to
do. Not everyone's afraid to do it. Some people are happy
being employees or just having their hobbies and side
passions for the weekend. I'm not one of those people. And
everyone's different. I guess that's my point. But, I don't
know, man. It's just really, really, really important to
understand. You can follow your dreams. You can try to
realize the life of your dream and everything. But, man,
just do not underestimate how much...education and
experience goes into that process.
You know what I'm saying? It's super important. It's super
important. So getting back to what I was saying, I don't
know if I made my point completely, but the first thing that
I would suggest is that you figure out what the market
values. Because if people don't value the thing, they're not
gonna pay for the thing, right? Because you might just... by
doing...by going through this process of figuring out what
it is that the market values, you can then decide, "Is what
I want to do for a living something that the market values?"
Because if it's not, guess what? You're making no fucking
money, my friend. Just facts, you know?
Maybe you want to produce a particular type of movie or make
a particular type of music or start this particular type of
project. If nobody gives a shit, if people don't receive
some kind of value from it, I mean serious value from it
that they couldn't get anywhere else, why would they pay you
for it? You know what I'm saying? Nobody cares how much you
love your fucking work if it doesn't do them any
good...nobody...they don't give a shit. They don't care,
people don't care about you or your passion or your dreams.
Nobody gives a shit. Not your mother, your father, your
girlfriend, boyfriend, your cousins, your siblings. Nobody
cares, bro. Nobody cares. Let me say it again. Nobody cares.
So before you put yourself through a bunch of frustration
and heartache and confusion and all these...these negative
feelings that you will inevitably experience at some point,
but to limit those feelings, you really got to get your head
on straight and understand the game that you are playing.
One does not simply follow one's dreams without educating
oneself, without running into barriers, without solving
one's own problems, becoming a resourceful person, learning
how to learn, and then being disciplined enough and humble
enough to keep going every time you hit a wall, fucking
blast through that shit. If nobody wants to help you,
fucking help yourself, bro. And I just don't think this is
stuff that people are telling young folks nowadays. So they
naively try to, you know, become fucking famous and
influencers and just want views and subscribers and clout
and recognition and all this fucking nonsense as opposed to
investing in real skills that the market values enough to
pay for. That is how you live the life of your dreams. By
waking up and accepting reality and understanding, yes, you
can realize the life of your dreams, but, large amounts of
pleasure and fun and excitement must be matched with
discipline, with perseverance, with education, you
understand? I didn't write all this down. I'm kind of
freestyling, so hopefully I'm getting my point across to
you. But it's --man, it's been on my mind a lot lately, it's--
you can't make progress, you can't evolve, you can't grow if
you're not like actively trying to educate yourself, gain
experience, learn new things, try new things, you know what
I'm saying? It's...it's just... it's not gonna work. It's
not gonna work. So, I think by going through that process of
trying and failing and getting feedback, you slowly start to
understand what do people find valuable? How much are people
willing to pay for certain things? What do people pay the
most for, you know? Is what I'm trying to sell easily found
in other places? Can people get it for free? You know what I
mean? Am I actually providing value to other people or just
to myself? Am I actually thinking about my customer? Or am I
just thinking about myself? I could talk for hours about
this man. I probably should have wrote all this down
beforehand to really, really, really drive my point home.
But, man, I could make 300 more episodes just about this
subject. I really think it's something that we should all
talk about a little bit more and we should definitely be
telling our young people because, man, if we don't raise our
kids to think properly, to attack their objectives and
achieve their goals in the proper way, we're setting
everyone up for failure because kids are the future, you
know? So teaching them how to productively realize the ideas
and the visions and the dreams they have in their mind is
better for everyone. You see what I'm saying? I just imagine
what the world would be like if some of the greatest
inventors or businesspeople or even employees didn't have
the right mentality and they were just delusional about the
value they were offering, delusional about how much money
they could make, delusional about who they were doing things
for. Just didn't understand business or the value exchange,
didn't care about their customers, never tried to evolve or
improve what they were doing. Just imagine where we would
be.